# RutherfordGoldFoilExperiment
Implementation of Rutherford's gold foil experiment in GEANT4 (version geant4-10-07-patch-02 [MT]).
The experimental setup is simple:
- It has been imagined that the alpha particle (with an energy of 4.6*MeV) are generated by a radioactive meterial placed in a cavity inside a parallelepiped-shaped lead block and that the particles are directed towards the target thorugh a collimator which simply consists of a cylindrical hole in the lead block. Not all of this has been simulated in the code; the particles are generated through a G4ParticleGun at the exit of the collimator with properties compatible with the description just made. In particular the particles are generated uniformly inside the collimator's hole (which is a circle of finite radius) and with appropriate momentum in order to generate an outgoing cone. The latter is reached giving to the particle also some momentum along the y and z axis, where the x axis is the direction which connects tha generator to the target foil
- The target foil is just a parallelepiped of gold
- The detector consists in a serie of screens placed in cylindrical symmetry where the sensistive part is directed towards the target foil. Each screen consists in two parallelepipeds, one of zinc sulfide and the other of glass to allow the observation of the flourescence
- The whole apparatus is supposed placed in the void

For the data analysis the number of hits on each of the detector's screen are saved. 
The angle of deflection is calculated starting from the position of the screens, which is supposed known with good precision. In particular the angle is calculated with respect of the position of the center of the screen.

The data are then exported in a macro executable with ROOT that return histograms representing the results via the simulation. The version of ROOT used for the development of the code is 6.24/06.

Particular observations about the code:
- It was added the possibility to change some of the parameters about the simulation in the gui through the messenger class
- The detector screens leave an opening to not interact with the incoming radiation before it is scattered by the foil
- For the PhysicsList two implementation where tests. One is just QGSP_BIC, the other is the custom PhysicsList implemented in the Geant microbeam advanced example. 
- The results obtained are not in agreement with the historical data, underestimating the amount of particles that are deflected of a large angle. 
- The simulation of each particle is stopped when it hits the glass layer of the detector.
